---
layout: post
title: N8 Digital Health Community Day 2023
tags:
- Conferences
---


On June 22nd, our fellow PhD students had the incredible opportunity to attend and present posters at the N8 Digital Health Community Day held at the University of 
Leeds, Nexus. This event was a gathering of experts from various fields, providing a platform for knowledge exchange and collaboration in the realm of digital health.

The Community Day boasted an impressive lineup of speakers, featuring representatives from esteemed organizations such as the Health Security Agency, Health Data 
Research UK, and universities including Manchester, York, Edinburgh, Sheffield and Newcastle, among others. Attendees from far and wide flocked to the event, eager to 
both hear and share cutting-edge research in the field of digital health.

Throughout the day, we were treated to an array of enlightening talks. We delved into the critical work of the Health Security Agency, learning about how they 
safeguard us against infectious diseases and other health threats. We gained insight into the incredible speed at which health policies can be informed, 
highlighting the importance of timely decision-making. Sometimes, we discovered, prioritizing speed and robustness can outweigh the pursuit of perfection.

The event also shed light on fascinating topics such as the transmission of Covid within hospital settings, the surprising correlation between walking speed 
and life expectancy, and the unreliability of wearable devices that often miscount steps, sometimes by as much as 25 thousand! We were intrigued by the potential 
use of smartphones in assessing neurological conditions at home and the prospect of personalized diet and lifestyle recommendations following colorectal cancer 
diagnosis. Additionally, we learned about the application of HAZOP in guiding us through the potential pitfalls of health AI models.

The experience was enriching and eye-opening, and we eagerly anticipate the next edition of the Community Day. It serves as a reminder of the immense value in 
coming together as a community to exchange ideas, broaden our knowledge, and foster collaborations that push the boundaries of digital health research.

Find out more about N8 and hear some more reflections [here](https://n8cir.org.uk/news/wearables-is-the-name-of-the-game-a-reflection-on-our-digital-health-community-day/).
